So congratulations on making it to the end of section 7 of The Complete Android and develop a course
now that we've covered both web views and ask you our data storage we're going to put that knowledge
in action making a completely off line newsreader app and the app looks like this.
So we're downloading some news items.
I'll show you where we're going to get those from.
In a minute.
And then when we tap any of those news items and then when we tap one of those news items it displays
the Web site and we display the HDMI content completely off line.
So that's the idea.
The app that we're going to build could really be used with pretty much any news Web site but we're
going to be using a site called Hacker News which is a site that I read quite frequently and I'd thoroughly
recommend you as a developer checking it out as a lot of interesting stuff on there but particularly
usefully it has a really nice API which is something that we know how to work with now.
So if you just do a quick google for hack and use API you should get all the details that you need.
All right.
That's pretty much it.
So back over 200 studio we're recreating the hack and use of line news reader app.
Best of luck for you guys.
All right well I'll kick off by starting a new project for my newsreader app usual settings.
Empty activity to begin with.
And don't forget.
Well that's lighting up looking a bit more detail at the Hacker News API and work out where we need
to begin.
So you can see we can access an item via its Id had a u r l like that
where we need to start with a list of all the recent articles.
So let's see if we can scroll down and find one of those.
And here we go.
So this link here gives us the top stories that's open that in a new tab.
And just take a look and there we go it's not interesting but a set of ideas gives us the top stories
and then once we've got those items to get the details of the items if we scroll up here we go it looks
like this link should do the job for us.
So that has all the details of the item that we need.
Specifically the title and you are all going to be the ones that we're really interested in.
All right.
So now we've got the basic idea hopefully of how the app is going to work.
Let's start off by creating our list view.
For our titles.
So get rid of the text fee and down in containers.
Drag in our list view and for this one I'm going to get a full screen so I'm going to get rid of
any padding in the flexible layout there any matter of personal taste.
But I think Elfen looks better to have that going right to the edge of the screen.
OK.
And then we'll add an ID of the.
All right back over to main activity and I'll just run the app in the background again.
And then we'll do our usual process to create a list view
so we're going to find it by its Id also.
Id dot list view.
And of course we'll cast that as a list vib
and then we'll need an array list of strings for our titles.
OK.
Just the one string so ill defined it up there as I'm sure we'll need to use it in several locations.
Similarly with our array adapter
I'll define it and then set it up here.
So it's going to be a new array of
using this I.
Main activity an android don't lay out a simple list item one has the structure and then titles as the
linked list and then we take a list view and we set that array adapter to it.
All right next we're going to set up the process of downloading the content.
So before I forget I'm going to add the permission for Internet
to manifest and then we're going to download the contents of this you are all here.
So I would just copy that.
I will need it surely.
So hopefully you can remember how to do this.
We first set up our download task.
So this is going to be a public class go down a task which is going to extend async task
with a string
we're not going to return anything.
And then a second string and then we'll get Andreas Judaea to implement the one required method doing
background
and then we'll write a code to get the contents of this you are.
So for that we need to set up a string which will call result which will initially be an empty string
we'll have a u r l l which we'll use later on.
And then we have our HTP u r l connection
called u r l connection which initially will be not
then we're going to take R U R L
which we can t create using the U R L method from this variable here.
Strings
0 and that will be the U R L that's passed to the download task.
Klaus and of course that might fail.
So we need to surround that with try and capture.
Assuming that works we'll take our u r l connection
and we'll open a connection from R U R L as before we need to cast that c and c t p u r l connection.
And there are some specific ways in which that could fail so we can add catch clauses for those specifically
the IO exception that
then we take our input stream
call it I N and we use your connection and we get an input stream from it.
Then we take our input stream read up and we create an input stream reader code reader which is going
to be any input stream reader based on our input stream in
next we create a data integer which we're going to use to loop through the reader and we keep going
as long as data is not equal t minus one
and we go.
And then we create a character called current to represent the current character that's being read.
And this we're going to take our data variable and cast it to a character then we take our result string
and append the current character to it.
And then finally in this part we update our data variable to read the next character.
And then finally for now we're just going to log our old content
and log the result of that process and then to run the task.
We get back over to our own create method and we create a download task which we call task which is
going to be a new download task and then we're going to take our task and execute it with the R L that
I copied earlier which should give us all the ID numbers of the top stories and we'll just surround
that with a try
and catch as well
just in case we have any problems and we'll just do a print stack trace.
If that does go wrong.
All right.
So let's give this a try.
Hopefully that brings back to you the process of downloading content from the web a little bit more
arduous than we want maybe but it gets the job done.
Let's take a look and there it is.
So you are real content and those are lovely numbers.
Displayed for us.
Right.
So next task is to take those numbers and convert them into a form that we can use to extract the individual
ideas so that should be pretty straightforward.
We just need to create a Jason array call Jason All right.
And this is going to be a new Jason array based on the results stream and we'll need to add a catch
clause for that because it's possible that something could go wrong with the Jason process.
All right.
And then we're just going to loop through the.
JASON All right.
So will do a simple flip
with an eye counter variable that starts at zero.
Keeps on going as long as it's less than the length of the Jason.
Right.
And it increments by 1 each time
and then temporarily or just log chase on item and Jason Auray get string or.
All right so that should now separate out all the numbers in
the adjacent array and then we can see that all returned at the bottom that wonderful.
Now there's probably more there than we need.
So I'm going to limit this to 20 items by setting number of items to be 20 and then we're going to go
up see number of items in our list.
There's a chance though of course that for some reason the API won't return 20 items and we don't want
our apt to crash in that situation.
So we'll do a check to see if
Jason array length is less than 20
then number of items will equal.
Jason Auray does length.
All right.
So I'm going to get rid of these locks for now.
Now that we've got all the ID numbers of the items that we're interested in we're going to load these
you are else here to do that we'll need this you know.
So let's create a u r l from it.
It's going to be a new R L
based on that u r l that.
But of course we want to replace the ID here with the article ID that we want.
So let's create a string called Article ID
which is going to be Jason Auray don't get string I.
And then we can use that in here.
To get the details of our current article and because we're still in our try catch leap we've got the
necessary catches there.
All right so now we set up everything again so your connection is HTP oil connection and we get that
from you or else that open connection.
We set up our input stream again.
So your connection don't get input stream.
We set up our Rita
being the input stream read up based on our input stream.
We set up our data variable we read the content and we're going to have a string which I'll call article
info which will initially be empty and then we'll loop through using the same process as before.
So as long as data is not minus one
will create a character called Current which is cast to a character from the data variable and then
optical info is going to be appended with the current character.
And then we carry on the process using data is read dot read right so that should give us the article
content.
So now again time to do a quick log
article in.
Article in.
All right.
So let's give that a try.
Now we should get the article info i.e. something that looks like this for all of the articles where
we've got that of course.
We're going to extract the necessary information that we need.
So specifically title and you are able and we might save the idea as well.
So let's have a look.
Scroll down and there were gay excellence so that's all the data that we need in nice Jason format.
So now let's extract what we need.
This time all we've got is a little bit more complicated than just a list of numbers.
So we're going to need a Jason object which I'll call Jason object and this is going to be a new an
object from
article info.
And as I mentioned the two bits that we're particularly interested in are title and you are el.
So let's for now just print both if that is
create an article title stream.
It's going to be chasing objects don't get
string title
and article you are l which is going to be traced on objects to get string you are well.
So we're checking title and you are out against the names here's a yep you are l and title
so we could jump straight on to the next one but I think it's always a good idea.
To print things as you go.
It doesn't take long and it could save you a lot of time.
Further on down the line while that's compiling it's a good idea to think about what is going to come
next.
So now that we've got the article title and the article you are Arel the final bit of data from the
web that we're going to need to get is the article content which will get of course from the article
you are out.
So let's just make sure that info
data is working.
And now we've got an interesting result here.
That's for one of our articles.
It would appear that there is no value for the r l.
So let's have a quick bit of investigation and see what's going on there.
So I'm going to log
the Jason object itself
and rerun the app and see if that's the case.
And if it is as looks likely we'll need to put in some manual checks for a u r l not existing which
is a good idea anyway.
Notice that because we're inside I try catch sleep it won't crash our app if there's no u r l but it
will cause an exception.
So none of this will run.
So if there's a single article with either no title or no you r l or no ID or something that it will
stop our app from getting any information until the article is no longer in the top 20.
So you can see we're getting the info fine here and it is extracting the data that we need for most
of them.
Let's have a look at the last one.
So this one here
you can see it's got a lot more children than most.
And a big long title as well.
And it doesn't appear to have a u r l.
OK.
So that's always a good lesson to learn not to trust the API that you're working with but always provide
you with the data that you are expecting.
So as always there's a number of ways to check for this.
I'm going to show you one called is no.
So we can use if
Jason object dot is no.
And then title and that will be called if either the title doesn't exist or if the title is no.
Now we want to check for that not to be the case.
So I'll put an exclamation mark in front of it.
So we're now checking that the title exists and is not no.
So I'll do a similar check for the.
You are L
and then we'll move
these lines of code into that statement.
So now if we check again we should get all of the news items that have a title and you are and the one
that doesn't have a u r l just won't be returned.
So let's have a look.
So now we've got all our info from our Top 20 news items.
Excellent.
So as we've said the final thing is to get the article data itself.
Now this time I want to use exactly the same code as what we've got here.
So I'm going to copy that down.
And just change what I need.
So we're going to create a new U R L from article u r l and then we're going to go through that process
of getting the content and I'll call this article content.
And finally then we'll loquat we need
which will be the article content.
So let's just have a quick look.
We should now have the HMO of a lot of different pages in our logs.
Let's take a look.
And you can see here that it is getting the data
but it's just too much data to be displayed in the logs.
So instead what Aldie is go straight to saving this data in our ICU database that the database will
need to be accessed from a number of places.
So we'll define it up here.
And I'll call it articles DP and then we'll set it up down here before the download task to articles
D-B we can use this
open or create database
and we'll call it articles are going to be private mode and no.
And then if it's the first time that we've run it we need to create a table in it for our data.
So we use articles DP exec as well and then we go with the rescue and we want to create a table if it
doesn't exist and the table will be called particles
and we're going to have an I.D. as we have in all our security tables which will be an integer
and it will also be the primary key.
We'll save the article ID
which will be an integer we'll save the title which will be a voucher and we'll save the content
which will also be used for child.
OK so now we have the table let's add articles to it.
So this time I'll need to create my SU as a string and then we'll add the variables in afterwards.
So we're going to insert into the articles table
and we'll leave the ID to be created automatically.
The article ID we're going to add ourselves as well as the title and the content.
And we've got values 1 2 3 I'll just put in extra space there.
Spread them out.
There we go.
And then we take our ask you a light segment class and set up a statement
and we're going to do that via articles D-B dot compile statement and the statement is of course rescue
l string.
I've just created.
And then we take out statements and we bind a string through it and the first one is that one there.
So that's the article ID which we've got saved in article ID.
Then number two is going to be the title which we've got saved.
And in fact it's not title it's article title
and number three is the content which we've got saved in article content that
grates.
And then we take out statement and we execute it.
OK.
So that's all looking good.
Bear in mind that this is just going to add it to the table.
So I'm going to add an instruction here to clear the table before we add any new data because we don't
want to adding the same thing over and over again.
So articles don't D-B exec as well and then simply delete from articles.
So that will clear everything and add new data in that.
All right.
So we're close.
We just need to write some code to update the list view when we're ready to go.
Now we're going to want to call that from the uncreate method.
And also we're going to want to call it again when article downloading process has completed.
So I'm going to define it as a method here.
Call it update list view.
So here we're going to want to get the data from the database and display the titles to the user.
So let's start by creating a cursor see which we're going to get from a simple articles D-B query select
everything from articles.
Well I don't know that as well then we need to create our indexes.
So we will have a content index which is going to be say don't get column index content
and then title index
which will be Sido get column index
and then we're going to check to see if
we have an initial value.
If the database returns anything and if it does we'll clear our titles list and we'll also need a content
array list to store our content.
So let's just add that in
every day.
So we're clear the content list as well and then we'll do a do while loop and the thing that we want
to do is add the current title to our titles array list so we get that with C. don't get string and
then title index and then Same thing with content.
So you don't get string content index and we keep doing that as long as we can go to the next item.
So we don't move to next
and then we just update the array adapter telling it that the data set has changed.
Now we're going to want to run this from two locations.
We'll update the list view there in the on create method and then we also want to do it down here.
So we'll do that by using the on post execute method which you remember is run when the
process in the download task is completed.
And so here we'll just update the list.
And here we go.
Now that did take a fair while a few minutes on my simulator here should be much quicker on a real device
now than we have with our titles which is great.
Let's check and make sure that they are indeed stored permanently.
So we'll just comment out the execute a task that
and restart the app.
And that should then save all of the titles.
And of course all of the content is well within the app and there we go just to make absolutely sure
we'll shut down the app load it up again.
And all the data is there.
Wonderful.
So now all that remains is adding the second activity which would display the article itself for the
user.
So let's do that so file new activity
and we'll just go for the usual empty activity I'll call this article activity
and then
we'll add in our Webby
gay
and we'll give it an idea of you and then we'll add in the code to set it up.
So let's create our web you call it web you will be cast as a web view and we'll get it using find view
by ID card or ID.
Talk wepe then we'll add in the settings that I mentioned last time so get settings and then set javascript
enabled to be true.
And we'll also set the web the client has a new web client and then we need to know which item was tapped
on to display it.
So let's get back to main activity and then he in our list view will set an on item click listener
with a new Adap.tv on item click listener and them as we are now hopefully familiar with we'll create
an intent which will be a new intent with the context of application context.
And we want to jump to Article activity class and we want to pass an extra.
And this is going to be called content and we want to pass content dog get.
And then the position that we're interested in is I which would be the one that the user.
All right then we'll start that activity
and then finally we can jump to Article activity.
And then again we'll create an intense
four which will use GET intent and then we'll use Wehby dot load data and then the stream is going to
be content to get string extra And this term we want to get is content
and then we just had the format so text Hachem L and the character encoding.
So UTF 8
hoops and that should be I-Slash.
All right.
Let's give it a try.
So we should now be able to tap on those items and view the article within the app in that web view.
Let's take a look.
And there we go.
So there's the article content displaying very nicely in our web view.
Worth bearing in mind that it looks so nice because we're on line so it's getting the styles and images
as well.
If we were off line then we'd only be displaying the HVM else so we'd get the content but it wouldn't
likely look as good.
But there we go.
That's what we were after.
And that takes us to the end of section 7 of the complete Android and developer of course.
So you are now hopefully confident and competent with using both shared preferences and as well databases
to store your users data off line as well as becoming familiar with web views dialogs and menus.
And of course having built two pretty big apps the news reader and our no taking app time to move on
now and we're going to start building our first social app using self-hosted passus server and that
is Instagram.
And we'll be building that in the next section.
I'll see you there.